[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: So
let's walk through this.
How many people solved it, by the way?
Did anyone get through it?
Kind of one?
I know one did, somebody was talking
about which type error do I throw?
All right, you're getting really,
really deep in there now.
Okay, so the first thing we need to do,
if we're talking about,
let me show the exercise real quick.
If we're talking about finding or invoking
a method with a specified context,
the first thing we need to do is find
a reference to what we're looking for.
I love the question that initially
popped out in the chasse,
can we use our prior method?
Totally, we can totally do that.
So I'm gonna call this fn in my example.
And I'm gonna say DOT(obj, prop);.
It turns out we just wrote a method.
So walk up the proto chain and
find a reference to a property.
So this will go through obj and
its entire proto chain looking for prop
and return a reference if one is found.
So in the next case we can just say,
if something is found,
I mean if you wanna get really deep
into it there's gonna be better checks.
I just want to say if
something is returned,
if we actually have a reference
to something, then invoke it.
So you could.
This is the first place you would maybe,
things would go like okay now
we need to call the method.
But this doesn't,
there's a couple things wrong with this.
One, ours is going to come in as,
in our test case,
this is going to come in as an array.
So maybe speak takes, in our test case,
speak takes a string argument.
But we can't just pass in args itself,
because speak expects,
this expects a string foo,
not an array of strings.
So this is a little, right off the bat,
the signature's gonna be different.
We can't just pass in args.
And the second problem with
this is context, right?
If we just invoke a function
like fn openPrint,
what is this going to be
inside this function?
What you guys think?
>> Speaker 2: Window?
>> Alexis Abril: Window?
It is gonna be the window.
Let's talk about the rules,
DOT call, new keyword, and?
>> Speaker 3: Call and apply.
>> Alexis Abril: Call and apply.
If this doesn't meet any of those rules,
it's gonna be the window by default.
So in this case it would
just be the window.
But one of the requirements we have and
one of our rules really matches up nicely,
right?
We have a rule that says you need to
invoke this function with
a context that we specify.
In terms about one of our rules,
call apply, by definition,
invokes a function of
the context that we specify.
So that's kinda nice.
So we can do call() or apply().
Now these take different signatures,
if you remember call() takes context and
then arguments such as that.
apply() takes context and
For our usage here, what do you guys
feel like we should be using, or
what do you guys wanna use?
>> Speaker 3: apply().
>> Alexis Abril: apply(),
cuz we have an array of arguments
it turns out being passed in.
That matches up really nicely too.
It also might match up because we
planned this exercise in advance.
One of those two things, I'm not sure yet.
So here we're gonna say obj, args.
And we need to do one last thing for
this particular exercise,
what do you guys think that is?
There's something still missing, but
it's not always immediately obvious.
>> Speaker 2: We have to return it.
>> Alexis Abril: We have to return
the value, we're invoke in the functions,
cool, but we probably wants whatever
value is coming out of that.
So let's check this out, and boom.
We have a passing test
which is kind of nice.
There's also a really nice way to
illustrate how this works in memory,
a couple of you guys have
drawings on your notepads.
But we'll have Justin come up here and
show your really nice representation of
what is actually going
on behind the scenes.
>> Speaker 4: Thanks for
suffering through that.
Now I'm trying to explain it
like kind of we do this a lot.
Anyways, as we're training, we beat you
over the heads with something hard,
make you struggle, and
I try to explain really good after.
So I'm gonna try my best to explain at
a high level what's going on cuz we just
assembled a lot of different things
we had just previously talked about.
So again on a high level, what you
were just trying to do, was implement,
make it so that the DOTCALL operator, this
person.speak(), actually works, right?
So we're implementing that
ourselves in JavaScript and
that needs to look up a property in
memory, of a function in memory,
like the DOT operator does,
and then call it.
So let me draw what's going on in memory,
and
why this DOTCALL is doing what it's doing.
So if here's our call object.
We're creating a person object in memory.
>> Speaker 4: Let me know if-
>> Speaker 5: That's good.
>> Speaker 4: See it already?
So here's person.
>> Speaker 4: So
person is gonna point to a function and
this is a prototype property.
>> Speaker 4: That points to an object
in memory and then this has the speak
property that points to
another function memory.
So here's that speak() function,
I'm just gonna draw it like this, and
I'm gonna make the speak property.
>> Speaker 4: That's what we've set
up with the person prototype speak.
Again, prototype is just
like a normal property.
We'll see how it's just like the dot
operator uses the proto property,
the new operator uses the prototype,
we'll see that in a second.
And then what's going to happen is it's
going to do new person with Smith.
What that's going to do is create a person
instance in memory, who has it's proto
property,
>> Speaker 4: Pointing
to the person's prototype object.
And this is gonna be lowercase person.
>> Speaker 4: Okay, so
the DOTCALL operator is trying to do
person.speak() and
then call it with some arguments.
>> Speaker 4: Is your computer here?
Can I escape out [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Alexis Abril: Hit escape,
it'll get you out.
Now hit command tab.
>> Alexis Abril: Hit command
tab until you get to slide one.
>> Speaker 4: Okay, so,
>> Speaker 4: Actually,
where do I get this test right here?
>> Speaker 4: Okay, here's the,
that is smaller,
>> Speaker 4: So,
quick, okay, so we created this Person.
We had that person, and it is a speak()
function and things like that.
What would happen if I called
a Person.prototype.speak()?
And I called it with,
make sure its the same up here.
I'm just gonna copy this function
over again which is okay to do, so
you can see function and
what I'm doing in the same place.
If I called Person.prototype.speak()
like this and
I did,
>> Speaker 4: Alexis,
what would this return?
>> Speaker 4: Anybody?
>> Speaker 4: Anybody confused about this?
Like, what I mean that the fact that
I can call it like this, right?
All I'm doing is this
Person.prototype.speak(),
calling it as a function.
>> Speaker 6: But,
isn't it in effect, a array?
>> Speaker 4: Not, speak is not,
it's just expecting a to whom.
>> Speaker 6: Okay.
It'd be, hello Alexis,
my name is undefined.
>> Speaker 4: My name is undefined,
exactly.
Because this is going to be what?
>> Speaker 6: Referring to the window?
>> Speaker 4: Good guess-
>> Speaker 6: Prototype?
>> Speaker 4: But it's actually
referring the prototype object,
cuz remember the DOTCALL
operator always uses
what's left of the rightmost dot as this,
right?
So in this case it's going to be,
you can still say undefined but
this is gonna be a person.prototype.
Now let's say I changed
it around a little bit,
I did var speak equals that.
Now if I were to all speak like this.
Now what would this return and
what will this be inside this function?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Speaker 4: What?
Well sorry.
Yeah, my bad, sorry.
That is what I meant to do.
So I just set a variables speak
equal to Person.prototype.speak, and
I'm just calling it.
What would this be?
>> Speaker 6: Window?
>> Speaker 4: Window,
you're exactly right.
And what would name be?.
If we were to write this.main.
>> Speaker 6: Undefined.
>> Speaker 4: Probably it's actually made
an empty strings just because windows name
property defaults to an empty string.
Okay so that's a little quick
recap of the dot operator and
how it supposed to work, right?
DOTCALL is supposed to take
what's on the left-hand side.
Now the reason why this
code is the way it is,
>> Speaker 4: It's like this.
So the reason why this
code is the way it is,
is it's going to person and
it's trying to find a speak value.
So we're using using the dot
operator we already created
which is gonna go look for dot.
Sorry, look for
a speak property on person.
It's not gonna have it.
You're going to walk up the proto chain,
find the speak() function and
just return that function as a fact.
So we'll just have floating this function.
It doesn't know at all about this person,
because functions really don't have any,
it's all about how functions are called
not about how they're defined, so
we force the issue.
We kinda force it, so
that we're going to call this function,
so person is what this is.
That's basically another recap.
Does that make sense,
hopefully a little bit better now?
Kinda see the bigger picture?
And one thing I can say is this person
object here has a name, which was I don't
remember in our example, something thought
was in, we already did an example.
>> Speaker 6: Alexis?
>> Speaker 4: Alexis.
>> Speaker 4: Cool, so, hopefully
that makes sense, the bigger picture,
hopefully you can start.
Our whole goal for this is that
you guys can start seeing a code.
First you construct your functions,
things like that.
The DOTCALLl operator and kinda see
what it's doing in this memory diagram.
Thanks, sorry for interrupting.
>> Alexis Abril: Your good.
[LAUGH]
>> Alexis Abril: Feel free if you have any
questions at all, even if it comes to you
a little bit later today, let us know.
This is hard, this is really hard if
you're coming from a statically typed
language or like a Java.
Cuz all the constructs, all the rules.
JavaScript has a very simple set of rules,
but they're very different from Java.
So cool, all right.
Okay,
>> Alexis Abril: So
in summary we're gonna go through
something very similar to this diagram.
If we have var d = new Date()
we have a new instance of Date.
d.foo = bar, d.hasOwnProperty,
where all these methods and
properties are are gonna
live is something like this.
We have a d pointer pointing to
our new objects which is the date.
It going to assign, we have a foo pointer.
This is actually a pointer or a foo
pointing to a primitive string called bar.
It's not gonna to have
hasOwnProperty() here,
it's gonna have to keep going up for
our date prototype.
This is because we've created a new Date,
var objects protos gonna point
to the prototype of our constructor,
which is Date.
It has things like it getDay and
other methods.
It's not gonna to find it there.
So it's gonna keep going
up to the base object.
Keep going up to the base object
to look for things up here, and
this is where it's going to find
something like hasOwnProperty(), and
then it's going to do the same thing.
We just went over here
invoke it with that context.
It's got it, and we are good.